So where are we now.
What do we need to do next in this lesson.
I want to talk about the workflow that's coming up for us.
We're going to write the data pre processing logic for our Web site.
And this lesson is going to be your roadmap.
It's going to be your guide to the code that we're going to write shortly.
This will make it a lot easier to follow the logic that we're gonna write in JavaScript over the next
lessons.
Now why do we need to pre process the data when a user draws on our canvas on our Web site.
And the answer is is that the data for the amnesty data set was processed in a particular way.
And then what we did was we trained our neural network on this data.
So if we want to make sensible predictions using our hand drawn digits what we actually need to do is
we need to pre process the inputs in exactly the same way as the data that was fed into our neural network.
Otherwise our neural network will be confused and will give us nonsense predictions.
So that raises the question how was the amnesty data pre processed.
Well we already talked about a few things namely the fact that the images were 28 pixels wide and 28
pixels high and that they were also black and white images meaning they only had one color channel and
there were seven hundred and eighty four pixel values.
However there's actually more that we need to understand about these individual hands on digits for
example the actual number that we see in the image itself is only around 20 pixels wide and 20 pixels
high.
And that means that on the left side and on the right side of this digit are around four pixels of padding
and there are also four pixels of padding at the bottom and at the top of the image and the digit inside
this image is actually centered and it's centered in a particular way.
So the researchers who created the endless dataset actually used each digits center of mass to center
the digit.
Now what is the center of mass the way that I like to think about it is through one of these bird toys.
I'm sure you've seen one of these before but these are these plastic birds that you're able to balance
on a fingertip.
And the reason is is that even though it looks like the bird is about to fall off the center of mass
of this little toy is on the beak.
Now the same concept applies when you try to balance by standing on one leg or try to do some fancy
break dancing move as long as your center of mass is not too far forward or too far backwards you remain
balanced.
So intuitively wearily familiar with this concept the thing that we have to understand though is that
the center of mass doesn't just apply to three dimensions and our world that we're familiar with it
also applies to two dimensions as well.
So for example the center of mass in a square is going to be right in the middle but the center of mass
for this triangle here is actually not bang in the middle.
It's actually slightly below the middle.
So this means the center of mass is something that we have to work out.
It's something that we can't always see visually.
It's something we have to calculate.
Now suppose we have this number to hit this hand drawn digit.
So what the researchers did was they worked out the center of mass for each of these hand drawn digits
and then they use the center of mass to actually center the hand drawn digit inside their image.
And that's pretty much all there is to understand about the key aspects of this M.A. dataset.
So given that we know how these images were pre processed what are the key pre processing steps for
us going to be.
How do we get from a drawing on our canvas to a tensor that we can use to make a prediction.
Well we spoke about a few key requirements already.
We need to resize the image.
We're going to have to make sure our image is black and white and we're going to make sure it's just
got one color channel and then we're also gonna have to send to the image using the center of mass.
Now I know this sounds like a lot of work and it sounds like we have to do a lot of computation with
JavaScript from scratch but lucky for us there's actually a tool that can make all of this so much easier.
And this tool is called Open CV open computer vision and this tool will help us with all our image processing.
Now let me give you an overview of the entire workflow that we're going to code up in JavaScript using
open CV.
This is gonna be our roadmap.
So where do we start.
Well first we have to draw the image on the Web site.
And then what we have to do is we have to take this drawing and loaded into open CV after that we're
going to convert this image to black and white and reduce the number of color channels to 1.
And now we will use open CV to find the contours of the digit that was drawn on this canvas and by controls
I really mean like a border or an outline of this hand drawn digit.
The reason we're getting these contours is because we're gonna be using them for the next step because
it's the contours that will allow us to work out the bounding rectangle of the image using the bounding
rectangle.
We can now crop the image and discard the parts of the canvas where the user didn't draw anything next
we're gonna work out how to scale down our image because what we want is we want the longest edge of
the image to be 20 pixels long.
So what we need to do here is we need to work out the new size we need to work out the proportions of
this image the target size after scaling if you will.
And once we know that we can use this information to actually resize the image.
So the next step is doing the actual resizing at this point the long edge will be 20 pixels.
And the short edge will be something less than 20 pixels depending on what was drawn on the canvas after
that.
We're going to be adding some padding to the image so we'll be adding around four pixels to each side
to make the whole image 28 by 28 pixels again for the next step.
What we're gonna do is we're going to find the center of mass in the image open CV makes this really
really easy.
There is no need for us to remember any complex mathematical formulas or do the math by hand.
Now we can use the center of mass to shift the image so that it is centered in the same way that the
researchers have shifted their images.
Again this is very important for the accuracy of our predictions.
Our training dataset had this done to it.
So we also need to emulate this when we're doing it with our live data that we're getting from our Web
site.
Otherwise our neural network will get very very confused and give us very terrible predictions after
we've shifted our image.
The next step is normalizing the pixel values.
Now what I mean by that.
Each of our black and white pixels is gonna have some value between 0 and 255.
What normalizing the pixel values means is we don't want the values to be between 0 and 255.
What we want the values to be is between 0 and 1.
So how do we do that.
Well simple.
We just divide all the pixel values by two hundred and fifty five.
And again we're doing this because this was done to our training dataset.
So we need to be consistent.
The last step is actually creating a tensor from the pixel values in the image.
This tensor will have the shape one by seven hundred and eighty four.
Just like in our training dataset and we can use this tensor to make a prediction and that's it.
That's the overview of the entire data pre processing workflow.
And as you can see there's quite a few steps involved and learning how to pre process data prior to
feeding it into a machine learning algorithm is one of the things that has the heart of this course
and the reason this is that in reality around 90 percent of the work in the real world involves data
processing and about 10 percent of the work will involve actually running the algorithm running the
actual algorithm is the easiest part in machine learning.
Now without further ado let's dive straight into open CV.
I'll see you on the next lesson.